# online-dating-algorithms
This repository was inspired by several discussions involving the lack of success generated by online dating (OLD) algorithms.  In this repository, source code for custom dating algorithms will be provided along with explanations regarding why these algorithms fail in the real world.  In addition, any novel ideas that could affect the success rate of these algorithms will be explored and discussed.  What you are about to read is an editorial/opinion piece from my point of view, which is not without fault.  Please do not take this writing too seriously.

## Points of discussion:

### 1. Most online dating algorithms are proprietary
Given the lack of OLD success in this day and age (see r/dating or r/relationships), it's safe to assume that OLD is unsuccessful in generating long term relationships.  If OLD algorithms are not working, there exists a problem.  Why not make the algorithms open source?  Here are a few possible answers to this question:
- The answer is likely because the company wants to stay ahead of the competition.  Each company does something different to separate itself from the competition.  
- Another possible answer could be that the algorithm is meant to exploit vulnerabilities unique to both sexes, and not to pair them (this goes for same sexes, too).  When exploiting these individuals, the motive is to keep them on the site/app.  By doing so, individuals on these dating sites/apps will generate more data and revenue.  Data is the key here.  The potential insights (involving him or her as a single sample) could change the world.
- Another answer is the combination of the above two points.  If a dating site/app has a reputation for not working, then it should fail.  However, maybe some of these sites/apps are for hookups, some are for long term relationships, and others appeal to a certain demographic.  Therefore, it's easy to bounce around from dating site/app to dating site/app.  There may be some data sharing going on between companies.  Who knows?

### 2. There is not enough in-person, face-to-face interaction
There is no substitute.  Texting is worse than a phone call.  A phone call is worse than a video chat.  A video chat is worse than in-person, face-to-face interaction.  Or, maybe there is a way around this.  What if we had as much data as possible about an individual?  Theoretically, that would help tremendously.
- With texting, miscommunication is very common
- With phone calls, low quality sound and being on the spot without having a face to read makes it uncomfortable
- With video chats, physical presence is still missing
- When face-to-face, the most natural forms of interaction will take their course.
- Ever see the Black Mirror episode, "Hang the DJ?"  This is a great example of how more data and simulation testing lead to better predictions.

### 3. The dating climate has changed
People should be having better success when they have everything going for them.  However, this isn't actually happening.  Trust issues, fear of repeating the past, and astronomical standards are in. 
- Women are more independent.  This is fantastic but has had some consequences.
- Technology has provided a window to sensitive information about an individual.
  - Say, there is a religious or political difference that acts as an instant deal breaker between two individuals.
- Kids growing up have witnessed a divorce, and don't want to repeat the mistakes of their parents.
- Previous failures in relationships.
- All the new buzzwords for old phenomena that's more common due to technology: ghosting, flaking, mooning, benching, catfishing, and my favorite, submarining.
- The rise of both crime and social justice.  Yes, sexual crimes are the worst.  Those who can move forward with what happened and carry on, are heroes and survivors.  Not victims.  However, lines are easier to cross than ever before.  Say something even slightly offensive, and it's over.  Where is the line exactly?

### 4. Online dating systems always have the same patterns
For both sexes, it's a numbers game, is it not?  These patterns involve the role of the male and female.  
- Men are the pursuers, while females are the selectors.  
- Getting a date is the challenge for men, while getting a good date is the challenge for women.  
- Men seek an ego boost, while women seek validation.
These are shallow points with some truth.  What about the men and women who are parents, overweight, too transparent, etc?  Men who may be dangerous?  Decent men and women exist, and online dating is a difficult place to find them.

### 5. Lying
Finally, the reason why the algorithms aren't performing effectively, even if the algorithms were perfect, is because the data is often garbage.  People lie excessively online, and this lying carries over to online dating.
- A male saying he is 6' when he is actually 5'8.
- An individual's base salary, job, major, etc.
- Telling the truth, but not all of it.  Does someone have another friend that he or she is very close to?  Maybe that's not the full story.
- Lying about one's self-perceived personality, or even worse, having a dangerous personality disorder.

## Requirements
The following software is required to run the algorithms:
- Python 3
  - Pandas
  - Sklearn
  - Seaborn
